Behavioral experiments
===========

*Experiment 1:* multi-player experiment with single, smooth spotlight & binary reward

*Experiment 2:* single-player micro-experiments to directly test model with simulated bots 

*Experiment 3:* direct replication of Berdahl et al (2013) noisy fields. 

Noise field generation
====================

Note that before running Experiment 3, the "light fields" that determine the reward landscape over time must be pre-generated by running 

```
python ./light-fields/main.py [out_dir]
```

This will create 4 time fields of 2880 time steps for three different noise levels in the `out_dir` folder. These files are stored in the directory `[out_dir]/[name]-[noise (formatted)]` where the noise variable formatting expresses the noise variable in scientific notation, with the period removed and any negative sign replaced with an "n". The files for each time in each field have file names of the form `[out_dir]/[name]-[noise (formatted)]/t[time].csv`. The [name] variable is simply an ID for the experiment.  The [noise] variable gives the noise level of the experiment.

Instructions to reproduce the experiments
========================================

Note: This is an unofficial fork of [MWERT](https://github.com/hawkrobe/MWERT), adapted to allow arbitrary numbers of players to join a single room and participate in a collective behavior task. 

1. Git is a popular version control and source code management system. If you're new to git, you'll need to install the latest version by following the link for [Mac](http://sourceforge.net/projects/git-osx-installer/) or [Windows](http://msysgit.github.io/) and downloading the first option in the list. On Mac, this will give you a set of command-line tools (restart the terminal if the git command is still not found after installation). On Windows it will give you a shell to type commands into. For Linux users, more information can be found [here](http://git-scm.com/book/en/Getting-Started-Installing-Git).

2. On Mac or Linux, use the Terminal to navigate to the location where you want to create your project, and enter 
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/hawkrobe/fish.git
   ```
   at the command line to create a local copy of this repository. On Windows, run this command in the shell you installed in the previous step.

3. Install node and npm (the node package manager) on your machine. Node.js sponsors an [official download](http://nodejs.org/download/) for all systems. For an advanced installation, there are good instructions [here](https://gist.github.com/isaacs/579814).

4. Navigate into the repository you created. You should see a file called package.json, which contains the dependencies. To install these dependencies, enter ```npm install``` at the command line. This may take a few minutes.

5. Finally, to run the experiment, enter ```node app.js``` at the command line. You should expect to see the following message:
   ```
   info  - socket.io started
       :: Express :: Listening on port 8888
   ```
   This means that you've successfully created a 'server' that can be accessed by copying and pasting 
   ```
   http://localhost:8888/index.html
   ```
   in one tab of your browser. You should see an avatar in a waiting room. To connect the other player in another tab for test purposes, open a new tab and use the same URL. Repeat as many times as you'd like!
